cgallery
=========

cgallery is a simple photo management system. it consists of 2 php files, and uses CDN versions of query and spin.js.

```sh
git clone git@bitbucket.org:clangen/cgallery.git
```

### gallery.php:
- index for a single gallery -- a directory of images 
- automatically creates thumbnails and generates layout

here's an example. let's say you have a directory full of images called **my_gallery_2013-09**:
```sh
mkdir my_gallery_2013-09
<copy images to my_gallery_2013-09>
cd my_gallery_2013-09
ln -s ~/cgallery/gallery.php index.php
```
now every time someone vists http://yoursite.com/my_gallery_2013-09 they will see a gallery generated by cgallery instead of a boring directory listing.

you can also use gallery.php to generate static html files. this improves performance by not indexing thumbnails for each page view:

```sh
php ~/cgallery/gallery.php > index.html
```

### gallery_list.php:
- indexes a directory of galleries

```sh
mkdir galleries
ln -s ~/cgallery/gallery_list.php index.php
```

### faq:

> why does this even exist?

practice. i like messing around with photos and just wanted a simple, directory-based management system. 

> why use cgallery instead of [my current image hosting service]?

there's not a good reason, honestly. image hosting services are generally cheap/free and are easy to use. i personally like hosting my photos on my own servers, and want viewers browse the way i want. i created cgallery for selfish reasons. 

> why php, and not something awesome like ruby/go/node/etc?

*sigh*. php is easy and it runs everywhere. it's also only used for thumbnail creation, so feel free to swap this part out with you want. all of the more interesting logic is in javascript anyway.

> why are are js and css included in the php files?

this was a conscience decision. although externalizing these resources would be easy, the scripts seem more useful when they are completely self-contained. just drop the php file in a directory and go. the consequence is that, in a couple cases, there is a small amount of code duplicated between gallery.php and gallery_list.php. yes, this makes maintenance slightly more annoying, but it also makes the system easier to use. 

> why aren't the javascript and css minified?

it introduces (what what i believe to be) unnecessary release overhead for now. the php files are still small enough that saving a few kilobytes over the net is negligible -- especially compared to the size of the images that will be viewed. as the project continues to grow i will periodically re-evaluate this decision.

> i angrily disagree with some of your answers and think you're idiot!

the license allows you to change the implementation as you wish, so feel free!